README.md, before:

# Gopus - OpenAI Chat CLI

A simple command-line chat application that uses the OpenAI Chat Completions API.

## Features

- Interactive chat loop with conversation history
- **Persistent chat history with multiple session support**
- Configuration file-based API key management
- Supports all OpenAI chat models (GPT-3.5, GPT-4, etc.)
- Configurable temperature and max tokens
- Graceful shutdown with Ctrl+C
- **OpenAPI 3 specification with generated client code using oapi-codegen**

## Prerequisites

- Go 1.21 or later
- An OpenAI API key

## Installation

1. Clone or download this repository:
   ```bash
   cd gopus
   ```

2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   go mod tidy
   ```

3. Build the application:
   ```bash
   go build -o gopus
   ```

## Configuration

1. Copy the example configuration file:
   ```bash
   cp config.example.yaml config.yaml
   ```

2. Edit `config.yaml` and add your OpenAI API key:
   ```yaml
   openai:
     api_key: "sk-your-actual-api-key"
     model: "gpt-3.5-turbo"
     max_tokens: 1000
     temperature: 0.7
   ```

### Configuration Options

#### OpenAI Settings

| Option | Description | Default |
|--------|-------------|---------|
| `openai.api_key` | Your OpenAI API key (required) | - |
| `openai.model` | The model to use for completions | `gpt-3.5-turbo` |
| `openai.max_tokens` | Maximum tokens in the response | `1000` |
| `openai.temperature` | Response randomness (0.0-2.0) | `0.7` |
| `openai.base_url` | API base URL (for proxies) | `https://api.openai.com/v1` |

#### History Settings

| Option | Description | Default |
|--------|-------------|---------|
| `history.sessions_dir` | Directory to store chat sessions | `~/.gopus/sessions/` |

## Usage

Run the application:

```bash
./gopus
```

Or run directly with Go:

```bash
go run main.go
```

### Example Session

```
Loading configuration from config.yaml...
Connected to OpenAI (model: gpt-3.5-turbo). Type 'quit' or 'exit' to end the conversation.

You: Hello! What can you help me with?
Assistant: Hello! I'm an AI assistant and I can help you with a wide variety of tasks including:
- Answering questions on many topics
- Writing and editing text
- Explaining concepts
- Helping with coding problems
- And much more!

What would you like to know?

You: Can you explain what Go interfaces are?
Assistant: Go interfaces are a powerful feature that define a set of method signatures...

You: quit
Goodbye!
```

### Commands

- Type your message and press Enter to send
- Type `quit` or `exit` to end the conversation
- Press `Ctrl+C` for immediate shutdown

### Session Management

Chat history is automatically saved after each message exchange. Sessions are stored as JSON files in `~/.gopus/sessions/` (or a custom directory if configured).

At startup, you'll see a list of existing sessions:

```
=== Available Sessions ===
  0. Start a new session
  1. Hello! What can you help me with? (4 messages, last updated: 2026-01-28 21:15)
  2. Explain Go interfaces (12 messages, last updated: 2026-01-27 14:30)

Select a session (0 for new, or number):
```

Sessions are automatically named based on the first message you send.

### Continuing Sessions

When you select an existing session, the full conversation history is loaded and sent to the AI with each request. This means the AI has complete context of your previous conversation and can continue naturally from where you left off.

```
Continuing session: Explain Go interfaces

--- Recent messages ---
... (6 earlier messages)
You: What about empty interfaces?
Assistant: An empty interface `interface{}` has no methods...
--- End of history ---

(Loaded 12 messages from history - the AI will have full context)

Connected to OpenAI (model: gpt-3.5-turbo).
```

## Project Structure

```
gopus/
├── main.go                     # Application entry point with chat loop
├── tools.go                    # Tool dependencies for code generation
├── config.yaml                 # Your configuration (not in git)
├── config.example.yaml         # Example configuration template
├── go.mod                      # Go module definition
├── go.sum                      # Dependency checksums
├── README.md                   # This file
├── internal/
│   ├── config/
│   │   └── config.go           # Configuration loading
│   ├── history/
│   │   ├── history.go          # Session management and types
│   │   ├── session.go          # Session selection UI
│   │   └── storage.go          # JSON file operations
│   └── openai/
│       ├── openapi.yaml        # OpenAPI 3 specification
│       ├── oapi-codegen.yaml   # Code generation configuration
│       ├── generated.go        # Generated client and types (DO NOT EDIT)
│       └── client.go           # Wrapper client using generated code
└── plans/
    ├── chat-app-plan.md        # Original architecture plan
    └── openapi-codegen-plan.md # OpenAPI integration plan
```

## Code Generation

This project uses [oapi-codegen](https://github.com/oapi-codegen/oapi-codegen) to generate the OpenAI API client from an OpenAPI 3 specification.

### Regenerating the Client

If you modify the OpenAPI specification (`internal/openai/openapi.yaml`), regenerate the client code:

```bash
go generate ./internal/openai/...
```

Or manually:

```bash
cd internal/openai
oapi-codegen --config=oapi-codegen.yaml openapi.yaml
```

### OpenAPI Specification

The OpenAPI spec (`internal/openai/openapi.yaml`) defines the chat completions endpoint based on the official OpenAI API. It includes:

- Request/response schemas for chat completions
- Error response handling
- Bearer token authentication

### Generated vs. Wrapper Code

- **`generated.go`**: Auto-generated by oapi-codegen. Do not edit manually.
- **`client.go`**: Wrapper that provides a simplified interface and handles configuration.

## Development

### Adding New Endpoints

1. Update `internal/openai/openapi.yaml` with the new endpoint
2. Run `go generate ./internal/openai/...`
3. Update `internal/openai/client.go` to expose the new functionality

### Dependencies

| Package | Purpose |
|---------|---------|
| `gopkg.in/yaml.v3` | YAML configuration parsing |
| `github.com/google/uuid` | UUID generation for session IDs |
| `github.com/oapi-codegen/runtime` | Runtime support for generated client |
| `github.com/oapi-codegen/oapi-codegen/v2` | Code generation tool (dev only) |

## Security Notes

- Never commit your `config.yaml` file with your API key
- The `config.yaml` file is included in `.gitignore`
- API keys are never logged or displayed

## License

MIT License

Commit message:

Remove quit and exit commands

README.md, after:

# Gopus - OpenAI Chat CLI

A simple command-line chat application that uses the OpenAI Chat Completions API.

## Features

- Interactive chat loop with conversation history
- **Persistent chat history with multiple session support**
- Configuration file-based API key management
- Supports all OpenAI chat models (GPT-3.5, GPT-4, etc.)
- Configurable temperature and max tokens
- Graceful shutdown with Ctrl+C
- **OpenAPI 3 specification with generated client code using oapi-codegen**

## Prerequisites

- Go 1.21 or later
- An OpenAI API key

## Installation

1. Clone or download this repository:
   ```bash
   cd gopus
   ```

2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   go mod tidy
   ```

3. Build the application:
   ```bash
   go build -o gopus
   ```

## Configuration

1. Copy the example configuration file:
   ```bash
   cp config.example.yaml config.yaml
   ```

2. Edit `config.yaml` and add your OpenAI API key:
   ```yaml
   openai:
     api_key: "sk-your-actual-api-key"
     model: "gpt-3.5-turbo"
     max_tokens: 1000
     temperature: 0.7
   ```

### Configuration Options

#### OpenAI Settings

| Option | Description | Default |
|--------|-------------|---------|
| `openai.api_key` | Your OpenAI API key (required) | - |
| `openai.model` | The model to use for completions | `gpt-3.5-turbo` |
| `openai.max_tokens` | Maximum tokens in the response | `1000` |
| `openai.temperature` | Response randomness (0.0-2.0) | `0.7` |
| `openai.base_url` | API base URL (for proxies) | `https://api.openai.com/v1` |

#### History Settings

| Option | Description | Default |
|--------|-------------|---------|
| `history.sessions_dir` | Directory to store chat sessions | `~/.gopus/sessions/` |

## Usage

Run the application:

```bash
./gopus
```

Or run directly with Go:

```bash
go run main.go
```

### Example Session

```
Press Ctrl+D to end the session.

=== Available Sessions ===
  0. Start a new session
  1. Hello! What can you help me with? (4 messages, last updated: 2026-01-28 21:15)

Select a session (0 for new, or number): 0
Starting a new session.

user: Hello! What can you help me with?
assistant: Hello! I'm an AI assistant and I can help you with a wide variety of tasks including:
- Answering questions on many topics
- Writing and editing text
- Explaining concepts
- Helping with coding problems
- And much more!

What would you like to know?

user: Can you explain what Go interfaces are?
assistant: Go interfaces are a powerful feature that define a set of method signatures...

user: ^D
```

### Input

- Type your message and press Enter to send
- Press `Ctrl+D` to end the input stream and terminate the session
- Press `Ctrl+C` for immediate shutdown

### Session Management

Chat history is automatically saved after each message exchange. Sessions are stored as JSON files in `~/.gopus/sessions/` (or a custom directory if configured).

At startup, you'll see a list of existing sessions:

```
=== Available Sessions ===
  0. Start a new session
  1. Hello! What can you help me with? (4 messages, last updated: 2026-01-28 21:15)
  2. Explain Go interfaces (12 messages, last updated: 2026-01-27 14:30)

Select a session (0 for new, or number):
```

Sessions are automatically named based on the first message you send.

### Continuing Sessions

When you select an existing session, the full conversation history is loaded and sent to the AI with each request. This means the AI has complete context of your previous conversation and can continue naturally from where you left off.

```
Continuing session: Explain Go interfaces

--- Recent messages ---
... (6 earlier messages)
You: What about empty interfaces?
Assistant: An empty interface `interface{}` has no methods...
--- End of history ---

(Loaded 12 messages from history - the AI will have full context)

Connected to OpenAI (model: gpt-3.5-turbo).
```

## Project Structure

```
gopus/
├── main.go                     # Application entry point with chat loop
├── tools.go                    # Tool dependencies for code generation
├── config.yaml                 # Your configuration (not in git)
├── config.example.yaml         # Example configuration template
├── go.mod                      # Go module definition
├── go.sum                      # Dependency checksums
├── README.md                   # This file
├── internal/
│   ├── config/
│   │   └── config.go           # Configuration loading
│   ├── history/
│   │   ├── history.go          # Session management and types
│   │   ├── session.go          # Session selection UI
│   │   └── storage.go          # JSON file operations
│   └── openai/
│       ├── openapi.yaml        # OpenAPI 3 specification
│       ├── oapi-codegen.yaml   # Code generation configuration
│       ├── generated.go        # Generated client and types (DO NOT EDIT)
│       └── client.go           # Wrapper client using generated code
└── plans/
    ├── chat-app-plan.md        # Original architecture plan
    └── openapi-codegen-plan.md # OpenAPI integration plan
```

## Code Generation

This project uses [oapi-codegen](https://github.com/oapi-codegen/oapi-codegen) to generate the OpenAI API client from an OpenAPI 3 specification.

### Regenerating the Client

If you modify the OpenAPI specification (`internal/openai/openapi.yaml`), regenerate the client code:

```bash
go generate ./internal/openai/...
```

Or manually:

```bash
cd internal/openai
oapi-codegen --config=oapi-codegen.yaml openapi.yaml
```

### OpenAPI Specification

The OpenAPI spec (`internal/openai/openapi.yaml`) defines the chat completions endpoint based on the official OpenAI API. It includes:

- Request/response schemas for chat completions
- Error response handling
- Bearer token authentication

### Generated vs. Wrapper Code

- **`generated.go`**: Auto-generated by oapi-codegen. Do not edit manually.
- **`client.go`**: Wrapper that provides a simplified interface and handles configuration.

## Development

### Adding New Endpoints

1. Update `internal/openai/openapi.yaml` with the new endpoint
2. Run `go generate ./internal/openai/...`
3. Update `internal/openai/client.go` to expose the new functionality

### Dependencies

| Package | Purpose |
|---------|---------|
| `gopkg.in/yaml.v3` | YAML configuration parsing |
| `github.com/google/uuid` | UUID generation for session IDs |
| `github.com/oapi-codegen/runtime` | Runtime support for generated client |
| `github.com/oapi-codegen/oapi-codegen/v2` | Code generation tool (dev only) |

## Security Notes

- Never commit your `config.yaml` file with your API key
- The `config.yaml` file is included in `.gitignore`
- API keys are never logged or displayed

## License

MIT License
